.\"-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" Copyright (C) 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012 - Emanuele Bovisio
.\"
.\" This file is part of Mulk.
.\"
.\" Mulk is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" Mulk is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with Mulk.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" In addition, as a special exception, the copyright holders give
.\" permission to link the code of portions of this program with the
.\" OpenSSL library under certain conditions as described in each
.\" individual source file, and distribute linked combinations
.\" including the two.
.\" You must obey the GNU General Public License in all respects
.\" for all of the code used other than OpenSSL.  If you modify
.\" file(s) with this exception, you may extend this exception to your
.\" version of the file(s), but you are not obligated to do so.  If you
.\" do not wish to do so, delete this exception statement from your
.\" version.  If you delete this exception statement from all source
.\" files in the program, then also delete it here.
.\"-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii mulk.1
.\"
.TH mulk 1 "December 2012" Version "0.7.0"
.SH NAME
mulk \- Non-interactive multi-connection network downloader with image filtering and Metalink support.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mulk [OPTION]... [URL]... 
.SH DESCRIPTION
Multi-connection command line tool for downloading Internet sites with image
filtering and Metalink support. Similar to wget and cURL, but it manages up to 50
simultaneous and parallel links. Main features are: HTML code parsing, recursive 
fetching, Metalink retrieving, segmented download and image filtering by width and height.
It is based on libcurl, liburiparser, libtidy, libmetalink and libcrypto.
.SH "GENERAL OPTIONS"
.IP "    --version"
Show
.B Mulk
version number.
.IP "-h, --help"
Show the help message and exit.
.IP "-q, --quiet"
Quiet (no output).
.IP "-v, --verbose"
Verbosity enabled.
.SH "DOWNLOAD OPTIONS"
.IP "-U, --user-agent"
Identify as different agent instead of Mulk/VERSION.
.IP "-p, --max-sim-conns-per-host"
Maximum simultaneous connections per each host (default = 2,
max value = 5).
.IP "-m, --max-sim-conns"
Maximum simultaneous connections (default = 50, max value = 50).
.IP "    --user"
Username to use for the connection.
.IP "    --password"
Password to use for the connection.
.IP "    --proxy"
<host[:port]> use HTTP proxy on given host and port.
.IP "    --cookie"
Cookie string for HTTP session. The string should be in the format "parameter1=value1; parameter2=value2".
.IP "    --load-cookies"
Load cookies from file for HTTP session. File should be in Netscape/Mozilla cookie file format.
.IP "    --save-cookies"
Save cookies to file after HTTP session. All cookies previously read from file, loaded from command line and sent by the remote server are written to the file.
.IP "    --exec-filter"
Execute an external program to modify or drop URLs to download.
.br
Two parameters will be passed to the program, the first is the URL to analyse,
second one is the level of depth where the URL was found parsing HTML.
The standard output generated by the program is considered the new URL to enqueue for downloading. If no output is generated, the URL will be dropped.
.br
URLs contained in Metalink files are ignored by this option.
.br
For example, this script drops all URLs that contain a question mark:
.HP 10
.br
#!/bin/sh
.br
mark=`echo "$1" | grep "?"`
.br
if [ "$mark" = "" ]; then
.br
  echo "$1"
.br
fi 
.br

.LP
.SH "RECURSIVE DOWNLOAD OPTIONS"
.IP "-d, --depth"
Maximum recursion depth (0 for infinite, default = 1).
.IP "    --no-html-dependencies"
Don't get all images, links, etc. needed to display HTML page.
.IP "-k, --save-relative-links"
Make links relative in downloaded HTML pages.
.IP "-H, --span-hosts"
Go to foreign hosts.
.IP "-D, --domains"
Comma-separated list of accepted domains.
.IP "    --exclude-domains"
Comma-separated list of rejected domains.
.IP "    --follow-ftp"
Follow FTP links from HTML documents.
.SH "INPUT OPTIONS"
.IP "-t, --option-file"
Text file with list of options. The file accepts only long options without '--'.
.br
The lines starting with '#' are skipped.
.IP "-f, --url-file"
Text file with list of URLs to download. The lines starting with '#' are skipped.
.SH "METALINK OPTIONS"
.IP "-l, --metalink-file"
Metalink XML file to download.
.IP "    --metalink-list-file"
Text file with list of Metalink files to download.
.br
The lines starting with '#' are skipped.
.IP "    --metalink-location"
Comma-separated list of accepted countries.
.IP "    --metalink-print-locations"
Print full list of valid countries.
.IP "    --metalink-continent"
Comma-separated list of accepted continents.
.br
Valid values are: AF, AS, EU, NA, SA, OC, AN.
.IP "    --metalink-print-continents"
Print full list of valid continents.
.IP "    --metalink-os"
Operating system of the file to download.
.IP "    --metalink-language"
Language version of the file to download.
.IP "    --metalink-resume-file"
Partially downloaded Metalink file to resume. It needs a reference Metalink file.
.IP "    --follow-metalink"
Follow Metalink files from HTML documents.
.SH "REPORTING OPTIONS"
.IP "-r, --report-file"
Generate a report in a text file.
.IP "-c, --report-csv-file"
Generate a report in a CSV file.
.IP "    --report-every-lines"
Write reports to files every n lines/downloads (0 for writing all reports at the end, default = 500). 
.SH "SAVING OPTIONS"
.IP "-x, --disable-site-save"
Don't save whole site tree to disk (enabled by default).
.IP "-g, --save-gif-image"
Save GIF images to mime output directory.
.IP "-n, --save-png-image"
Save PNG images to mime output directory.
.IP "-j, --save-jpeg-image"
Save JPEG images to mime output directory.
.IP "    --save-mime-type"
Save URLs with specific mime type to output directory.
.IP "    --mime-output-dir"
Output directory to save files by mime types (default = 'data').
.IP "    --file-output-dir"
Output directory to save downloaded files (default = '.').
.IP "    --temp-dir"
Temporary downloading directory (default = '.tmp-mulk'). 
.SH "IMAGE OPTIONS (active only with -g, -n or -j)"
.IP "    --min-image-width"
Minimum image width.
.IP "    --max-image-width"
Maximum image width.
.IP "    --min-image-height"
Minimum image height.
.IP "    --max-image-height"
Maximum image height.
.SH BUGS
.B Please report any bugs using the bug reporting form on the
.B Mulk
web site:
.B http://sourceforge.net/projects/mulk
.SH "SEE ALSO"
Additional information and the latest version is available
at the web site:
.B http://sourceforge.net/projects/mulk
.SH AUTHOR
Emanuele Bovisio <pocoyo@users.sourceforge.net> wrote this manpage.  
.B Mulk
was written by Emanuele Bovisio.
